---
layout: post
title: outstanding ostriches-the runners of the bird family 
date: 2025-04-28 
tags:
  - posts
  - birds
  - runners
  - outstanding
excerpt: find out about the coolest and fastest of the bird family!! 
image: /assets/ostrich.jpg
---

# Ostriches 

Are the fastest bird you would ever want to meet!they are incredebly fast runners maintaining speeds of up to 43 miles per hour. they are not faster than a cheetah but they can substain the same speed for longer than cheetahs, while cheetahs are better at short sprints.

## ostrich preditors 

the ostriches preditors normaly won't go after a full grown ostrich, but somtimes prditors do crazy things. their preditors are 
*cheetaahs
*lions
*leopards
*hunting dogs (who knew?)
*spotted hyenas 
some preditors are smart and do not atack full grown ostriches, they target ostrich eggs.

## ostrich eggs

osrich eggs are HUGE. i have seen pictures and it is like a baby, but in a smooth hard shell. the things that try to steal ostrich eggs are: 
* egyptian vultures 
* and jackles
these animals are much smarter than the ones who try to kill the full grown ostrich. female osriches (hens) have to be very protective of their eggs, or some jackle or vulture will snach it up and eat it.



# ostriches eat stones who knew???!!!

yes, osriches eat stones. crazy weird/cool. i mean, don't they tast all rocky and dusty? do they have a flaver? ok, doing some reserch i found out that ostriches need to eat rocks as part of their diet (wow)!!! they use stones as substitute teeth!! so yes they have no teeth and they eat alot of plants. so when they eat the plants they go find some rocks and use them to grind the food in their digestive sistum.