---
layout: post
title:  Dogs - Man's Best Friend
date: 2025-04-27
tags:
  - posts
  - mammals
  - dogs
  - furry friends
excerpt: Discover crazy-cool facts about dogs, man's best friend and number one pet!!
image: /assets/dog.jpg
---

# Dogs

Dogs are interesting and fluffy and so fun to play with. they are smart and loyal. there are hundreds of diffrent breed and mixes. most people love dogs, like me! though some people ay be alergic,(also like me!) but i hope you love reading about them and enjoy this post!!

# histery 

dogs are desended from wolfs, they came into human society when they begged for food. most of the time in the wild it is survival of the fitest, but in this case the mean and aggresive dogs got chased away, while the kind and freindly dogs got welcomed and adopted. this is how dogs starrted becoming our pets.

# super-sences

## smell 

geuss what! dogs have 300 million sent recepters! that is so much more compared to humans, who have only 6 million. this alows them to detect oders that we can't smell. this is why dogs are so often used as police dogs or rescue dogs.

## hearing 

Annnd they get hearing thats better than us too?? boooooooooo! but this can help them help us! becauce, dogs can hear much higher freqencies then humans. lie doge wistles, when you blow on them you can not hear them, but the dogs can! and this amazing qualety can, as i said, help them help us!!

## sight 

ok, i'll call this one a fifty-fifty in humans vs dogs sences chalenge.dogs have a wider feild of vison than us. this means thay can see farther and wider. buuuut humans have a better sence of coler and detail, because dogs can not see coler!

## taste 

yippy!! we have way more taste buds than dogs (i had already geussed that because thay eat grass!!) the taste bud rase is about 1,700(dogs) to 9,000 (humans) also they have diffrent taste perfurance. have you ever seen a dog turn away from a peice of bacon? of course not! they love meat more than any thing else.

## touch 

dogs, like humans have a sence of touch but that sensitivaty may vary from humans. we feel most things with our hands, but they might like to roll around in it instead or put their mouth on it.



# breeds

Some dog breeds are more popular than others, more people get golden retrievers more than a pit bulls. the dogs breeds that i like the most are probably 
* poodles 
* yorkshire terrier
* or a siberian husky 
some people purpusly breed dogs to make a fluffyer kinder dog breed. though some breeds we made have problems, like a pug, their squished face makes them look so cute but pugs also can have breathing problums that are not good. and with futer breeding i hope we make some better breeds that don't hae breething problems.  